# Land Use classification
This project is an example for classifying the Land Use from satellite images
1. Crop a map (tif format) using shapefile, then comparing between the two images (rasterio_example.ipynb).
2. Download specific bands of Sentinel-2 satellite image online and calculate different vegetative indices then save the calculated indices as geotiff (veg_indices_sentinel2_api.ipynb).
3. Download specific bands of Sentinel-2 satellite image online in 2023, taking into consideration that starting from 25 January 2022, a shift has been added to satellite images. Therefore, harmonization to adjust the new baseline data was applied first. Calculate different vegetative indices then save the calculated indices as geotiff (veg_indices_sentinel2_api_2023.ipynb)
5. Download range of date for specific bands of Sentinel-2 satellite image online and calculate different vegetative indices then save the calculated indices as geotiff each date in a seperate folder (veg_indices_sentinel2.py).
6. Mask the saved geotiff images with a vector file of the same location. The vector file has many polygons that repersented different classes such as agricultural land, buildings, water bodies and roads. Convert the vector file to raster one (geotiff image) as well with the class id (Masked_geotif).
7. Mask all the saved geotiff images depending on the satellite image date with a vector file of the same location. Each date will be saved in a folder with the date value, where each date contained 20 images for bands and calculated indices of sentinel-1 and sentinel-2. The vector file has many polygons that repersented different classes such as agricultural land, buildings, water bodies and roads. Convert the vector file to raster one (geotiff image) as well with the class id (masked_geotif_vector_file.py).
8. Save the masked geo-tiff images (values) in a dataframe, where each column represents one of the calculated index or band and the last column represent the correspond class in the saved shapefile with a total columns 21. Each record of this data frame represents one pixel with value, where the null pixels that had no class values were deleted. Saving the data frame after resampling its values to avoid biased data in csv file (saved_data_csv.ipynb). 
9. Develop several ML classifiers such as KNN, decision tree, random forest, XGBoost, SVC (linear and rbf) and LSTM for fitting and predicting the last saved data. The Randomized Search and Hyperparameters (Optuna) were used for examining the best parameters of the mentioned classifiers (AI_models_LU.ipynb).
10. Using an independent Satellite images and the calculated indices in 2023 (06/08/2023) for testing the developed models and draw the result as classified Land Use map (AI_models_LU_predict.ipynb).
